OSDOCS-14170: Created doc for enabled port isolation Linux bridge CNI… (#92544)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/virt-linux-bridge-nad-port-isolation.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-linux-bridge-nad-port-isolation.adoc_{context}"]
= Enabling port isolation for a Linux bridge NAD

> You can enable port isolation for a Linux bridge network attachment definition (NAD) so that virtual machines (VMs) that run on the same virtual LAN (VLAN) can operate in isolation from one another. When you assign an IP address to the virtual bridge, the virtual bridge can act as a gateway. The Linux bridge NAD creates a virtual bridge, or _virtual switch_, between network interfaces and the physical network. The Linux bridge NAD configures port numbers on the virtual bridge so that only specific traffic can reach each port. 

Author: Thanks. Removed!

Isolating ports in this way can provide enhanced security, efficient resource use, and performance improvements for VM workloads that run on the same node. 

Before you enable port isolation, you must disable hairpin traffic from reaching the isolated ports.

.Prerequisites

* You created Linux bridge NAD by using either the web console or the command-line interface. 

.Procedure

. Edit the Linux bridge NAD by setting `portIsolation` to `true`:
+
[source,yaml]

> ----

Reviewer: I think this example should include additional configuration that are commonly used for VMs, such as `vlan`, `disableContainerInterface`, `preserveDefaultVlan`

```
      "cniVersion":"0.3.1",
      "name": "bridge-network",
      "type": "bridge",
      "bridge": "br1",
      "preserveDefaultVlan": false,
      "vlan": 100,
      "disableContainerInterface": "true", 
      "portIsolation": "true"
```

Author: Added and a description for `disableContainerInterface` as no description exists in the pre-existing "Creating a Linux bridge NAD by using the command line" section.

apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: bridge-network 
  annotations:
    k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/resourceName: bridge.network.kubevirt.io/br1 
spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "bridge-network", <1>
      "type": "bridge", <2>
      "bridge": "br1", <3>

>       "hairpinMode": "true", <4>

Author: Updated. I add something related in the prerequisites.

      "portIsolation": "true" <5>
    }
# ...
----
<1> The name for the configuration. The name must match the the value in the `metadata.name` of the NAD.
<2> The actual name of the Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin that provides the network for this network attachment definition. Do not change this field unless you want to use a different CNI.
<3> The name of the Linux bridge that is configured on the node. The name should match the interface bridge name defined in the NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy manifest.
<4> Defaults to `false`. When set to `true`, network interfaces that interact with the virtual bridges 

> <5> Enables or disables port isolation on the virtual bridge. Default value is `false`. When set to `true`, each targeted VM is assigned to a specific port number. The virtual bridge prevents traffic from one isolated port from reaching another isolated port.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-linux-bridge-nad-port-isolation.adoc_{context}"]
= Enabling port isolation for a Linux bridge NAD

You can enable port isolation for a Linux bridge network attachment definition (NAD) so that virtual machines (VMs) or pods that run on the same virtual LAN (VLAN) can operate in isolation from one another. The Linux bridge NAD creates a virtual bridge, or _virtual switch_, between network interfaces and the physical network.

> Isolating ports in this way can provide enhance security for VM workloads that run on the same node. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Isolating ports in this way can provide enhanced security for VM workloads that run on the same node. 
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> You can enable port isolation for a Linux bridge network attachment definition (NAD) so that virtual machines (VMs) or pods that run on the same virtual LAN (VLAN) can operate in isolation from one another. The Linux bridge NAD creates a virtual bridge, or _virtual switch_, between network interfaces and the physical network. You can then configure port numbers on the virtual bridge so that only specific traffic can reach each port. 

Reviewer 3: @dfitzmau This is not correct statement, you can remove `You can then configure port numbers on the virtual bridge so that only specific traffic can reach each port.`

@yossisegev Could you help review some settings specific to VM workloads?

.Prerequisites

* For VMs, you configured either a static or dynamic IP address for each VM. See "Configuring IP addresses for virtual machines".
* You created a Linux bridge NAD by using either the web console or the command-line interface. 

> * You ensured that `spec.config.hairpinMode` in the Linux bridge NAD was not set to `true`.

Reviewer 4: This surprised me. Where is this requirement coming from?

Do you know @ormergi ?

Reviewer: I missed that line, my bad.
I dont know of such limitation, isolation should work alongside hairpin mode.
@dfitzmau  Could you please share a ref for that? If there is none, we should omit this line.

Author: I'm unable to find the exact source for this, so I removed the line. Thanks for confirming!

.Procedure

. Edit the Linux bridge NAD by setting `portIsolation` to `true`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: bridge-network 
  annotations:
    k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/resourceName: bridge.network.kubevirt.io/br1 
spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "bridge-network", <1>
      "type": "bridge", <2>
      "bridge": "br1", <3>
      "preserveDefaultVlan": false,
      "vlan": 100,
      "disableContainerInterface": "true", <4>

>       "portIsolation": "true" <5>

Reviewer 4: The values here should be booleans. Please remove the quotes

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

    }
# ...
----
<1> The name for the configuration. The name must match the the value in the `metadata.name` of the NAD.
<2> The actual name of the Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin that provides the network for this network attachment definition. Do not change this field unless you want to use a different CNI.

> <3> The name of the Linux bridge that is configured on the node. The name should match the interface bridge name defined in the NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy manifest.

Reviewer 2: >The name should match

Should or must? Just asking.

Author: Updated to "must", thanks!

> <4> Optional: When set to `true`, a `veth` endpoint with a `state: down` configuration is created in the container. If set to `false`, you cannot use the IP address management (IPAM) CNI plugin.

Reviewer 4: This is not optional with VMs. It should be always set to false, otherwise live migration may be broken. You can remove this callout. We do not support IPAM with VMs and bridge

Author: Updated to:

> The default value is `false`. If you set `true` for the parameter, live migration might be impacted.

> <4> Optional parameter that when set to `true` leads to the creation of a `veth` endpoint with a `state: down` configuration in the container. If set to `false`, you cannot use the IP address management (IPAM) CNI plugin.

Reviewer 2: Not sure how to rewrite if we use the (I think) perferred `Optional:` formatting. 
```suggestion
<4> Optional: When set to `true` a `veth` endpoint with a `state: down` configuration is created in the container. If set to `false`, you cannot use the IP address management (IPAM) CNI plugin.
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> <4> Optional parameter that when set to `true` refers to the `veth` endpoint that exists in a container and leads to the creation of a Linux bridge with a `state: down`, disabled, configuration. If set to `false`, you cannot use the IP address management (IPAM) CNI plugin.

Author: Thanks. Updated!

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-linux-bridge-nad-port-isolation.adoc_{context}"]
= Enabling port isolation for a Linux bridge NAD

You can enable port isolation for a Linux bridge network attachment definition (NAD) so that virtual machines (VMs) or pods that run on the same virtual LAN (VLAN) can operate in isolation from one another. The Linux bridge NAD creates a virtual bridge, or _virtual switch_, between network interfaces and the physical network. You can then configure port numbers on the virtual bridge so that only specific traffic can reach each port. 

> Isolating ports in this way can provide enhanced security, efficient resource use, and performance improvements for VM workloads that run on the same node. 

Reviewer: > efficient resource use, and performance improvements for VM workloads that run on the same node.

I am not aware using this feature improve reduce resources utilization or performance, could please share the reference for that?
If its not the case then I think this part should be omitted.

Author: Sorry, I took this from a source online. I removed those aspects of that statement leaving only "enhanced security" if this is OK?

.Prerequisites

* For VMs, you configured either a static or dynamic IP address for each VM. See "Configuring IP addresses for virtual machines".
* You created Linux bridge NAD by using either the web console or the command-line interface. 
* You ensured that `spec.config.hairpinMode` in the Linux bridge NAD was not set to `true`.

> ts can be done statically inside the guest, or by a DHCP server in the physical network (the bridge is connected to)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be done statically inside the guest, or by a DHCP server in the physical network (the bridge is connected to)
```

Author: Sorry leftover sentence that should have been removed. I instead point a customer to the "Configuring IP addresses for virtual machines" document.

.Procedure

. Edit the Linux bridge NAD by setting `portIsolation` to `true`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: bridge-network 
  annotations:
    k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/resourceName: bridge.network.kubevirt.io/br1 
spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "bridge-network", <1>
      "type": "bridge", <2>
      "bridge": "br1", <3>
      "preserveDefaultVlan": false,
      "vlan": 100,
      "disableContainerInterface": "true", <4>
      "portIsolation": "true" <5>
    }
# ...
----
<1> The name for the configuration. The name must match the the value in the `metadata.name` of the NAD.
<2> The actual name of the Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin that provides the network for this network attachment definition. Do not change this field unless you want to use a different CNI.
<3> The name of the Linux bridge that is configured on the node. The name should match the interface bridge name defined in the NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy manifest.

> <4> Optional parameter that when set to `true` prevents the creation of network interfaces for each VM or pod in your cluster. A centralized data plane handles all container communications. If set to `false`, you cannot use IP address management (IPAM).

Reviewer: > Optional parameter that when set to `true` prevents the creation of network interfaces for each VM or pod in your cluster.

When `disableContainerInterface` refers to the veth peer instead the container, actually the interface will created but in disabled state (state DOWN).

> A centralized data plane handles all container communications

For me its confusing and I am not sure what it means, I think this one should be omitted.

> If set to `false`, you cannot use IP address management (IPAM).

It should refer to the CNI  IPAM option that is sort of CNI plugin, aka IPAM CNI plugin.
I think it should mention it refer to plugin: ```you cannot use IP address management (IPAM) plugin.```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> <5> Enables or disables port isolation on the virtual bridge. Default value is `false`. When set to `true`, each targeted VM or pod is assigned to a specific port number. The virtual bridge prevents traffic from one isolated port from reaching another isolated port.

Reviewer: > each targeted VM or pod is assigned to a specific port number.

I am not sure about the pod numbering, I think it should say VM/pod is assigned to an isolated port, i.e.: the port is configured to be isolated.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:
